---
lang: en-us
title: Day 11 - Advent of Code 2025
---

## \-\-- Day 11: Reactor \-\--

You hear some loud beeping coming from a hatch in the floor of the
factory, so you decide to check it out. Inside, you find several large
electrical conduits and a ladder.

Climbing down the ladder, you discover the source of the
[beeping]{title="The beeping is unrelated to the issue with the server rack. The reactor is just hungry."}:
a large, toroidal reactor which powers the factory above. Some Elves
here are hurriedly running between the reactor and a nearby server rack,
apparently trying to fix something.

One of the Elves notices you and rushes over. \"It\'s a good thing
you\'re here! We just installed a new *server rack*, but we aren\'t
having any luck getting the reactor to communicate with it!\" You glance
around the room and see a tangle of cables and devices running from the
server rack to the reactor. She rushes off, returning a moment later
with a list of the devices and their outputs (your puzzle input).

For example:

    aaa: you hhh
    you: bbb ccc
    bbb: ddd eee
    ccc: ddd eee fff
    ddd: ggg
    eee: out
    fff: out
    ggg: out
    hhh: ccc fff iii
    iii: out

Each line gives the name of a device followed by a list of the devices
to which its outputs are attached. So, `bbb: ddd eee` means that device
`bbb` has two outputs, one leading to device `ddd` and the other leading
to device `eee`.

The Elves are pretty sure that the issue isn\'t due to any specific
device, but rather that the issue is triggered by data following some
specific *path* through the devices. Data only ever flows from a device
through its outputs; it can\'t flow backwards.

After dividing up the work, the Elves would like you to focus on the
devices starting with the one next to you (an Elf hastily attaches a
label which just says *`you`*) and ending with the main output to the
reactor (which is the device with the label *`out`*).

To help the Elves figure out which path is causing the issue, they need
you to find *every* path from `you` to `out`.

In this example, these are all of the paths from `you` to `out`:

- Data could take the connection from `you` to `bbb`, then from `bbb` to
  `ddd`, then from `ddd` to `ggg`, then from `ggg` to `out`.
- Data could take the connection to `bbb`, then to `eee`, then to `out`.
- Data could go to `ccc`, then `ddd`, then `ggg`, then `out`.
- Data could go to `ccc`, then `eee`, then `out`.
- Data could go to `ccc`, then `fff`, then `out`.

In total, there are *`5`* different paths leading from `you` to `out`.

*How many different paths lead from `you` to `out`?*

Your puzzle answer was `690`.

The first half of this puzzle is complete! It provides one gold star: \*

## \-\-- Part Two \-\-- {#part2}

Thanks in part to your analysis, the Elves have figured out a little bit
about the issue. They now know that the problematic data path passes
through both `dac` (a [digital-to-analog
converter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital-to-analog_converter){target="_blank"})
and `fft` (a device which performs a [fast Fourier
transform](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fast_Fourier_transform){target="_blank"}).

They\'re still not sure which specific path is the problem, and so they
now need you to find every path from `svr` (the server rack) to `out`.
However, the paths you find must all also visit both `dac` *and* `fft`
(in any order).

For example:

    svr: aaa bbb
    aaa: fft
    fft: ccc
    bbb: tty
    tty: ccc
    ccc: ddd eee
    ddd: hub
    hub: fff
    eee: dac
    dac: fff
    fff: ggg hhh
    ggg: out
    hhh: out

This new list of devices contains many paths from `svr` to `out`:

    svr,aaa,fft,ccc,ddd,hub,fff,ggg,out
    svr,aaa,fft,ccc,ddd,hub,fff,hhh,out
    svr,aaa,fft,ccc,eee,dac,fff,ggg,out
    svr,aaa,fft,ccc,eee,dac,fff,hhh,out
    svr,bbb,tty,ccc,ddd,hub,fff,ggg,out
    svr,bbb,tty,ccc,ddd,hub,fff,hhh,out
    svr,bbb,tty,ccc,eee,dac,fff,ggg,out
    svr,bbb,tty,ccc,eee,dac,fff,hhh,out

However, only *`2`* paths from `svr` to `out` visit both `dac` and
`fft`.

Find all of the paths that lead from `svr` to `out`. *How many of those
paths visit both `dac` and `fft`?*

Answer:

Although it hasn\'t changed, you can still [get your puzzle
input](11/input){target="_blank"}.

You can also [\[Share[on
[Bluesky](https://bsky.app/intent/compose?text=I%27ve+completed+Part+One+of+%22Reactor%22+%2D+Day+11+%2D+Advent+of+Code+2025+%23AdventOfCode+https%3A%2F%2Fadventofcode%2Ecom%2F2025%2Fday%2F11){target="_blank"}
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=I%27ve+completed+Part+One+of+%22Reactor%22+%2D+Day+11+%2D+Advent+of+Code+2025&url=https%3A%2F%2Fadventofcode%2Ecom%2F2025%2Fday%2F11&related=ericwastl&hashtags=AdventOfCode){target="_blank"}
[Mastodon](javascript:void(0);){onclick="var ms; try{ms=localStorage.getItem('mastodon.server')}finally{} if(typeof ms!=='string')ms=''; ms=prompt('Mastodon Server?',ms); if(typeof ms==='string' && ms.length){this.href='https://'+ms+'/share?text=I%27ve+completed+Part+One+of+%22Reactor%22+%2D+Day+11+%2D+Advent+of+Code+2025+%23AdventOfCode+https%3A%2F%2Fadventofcode%2Ecom%2F2025%2Fday%2F11';try{localStorage.setItem('mastodon.server',ms);}finally{}}else{return false;}"
target="_blank"}]{.share-content}\]]{.share} this puzzle.
